This is how you can get started working with your data inside of your code environment.
Step 1 is to pick your dataset.
You can grab data from a ton of different sources.
A few common ones are from your local files, from any CSV that you've downloaded.
You can use API requests, which pulls live data from the web, or you can use some built-in
datasets from libraries like scikit-learn, seaborn, or huggingface.
Step number 2 is to create a new script in your IDE.
I always use positron.
Positron is built for data apps, so it is great for this sort of workflow.
Open the app, click file, new file, and new python script.
Then you can save the file in the same folder as your dataset if you're working locally.
Then step 3 is to actually load the data.
Once you've got it loaded into your notebook, you can use some common commands like df.head,
df.info, or dataframe.describe to see some summary statistics.
Whatever project you plan to work on, model training, dashboards, or just playing with
data, step 1 is always getting it into your environment, and positron makes that such
a smooth experience.
Make sure you leave any questions in the comments below and follow along for more data science
content.